In the day's other news: Iraqi
soldiers in Western Mosul
advanced deeper into the last
pocket still being held
by Islamic State forces.
Fierce fighting continued in
an area packed with civilians.
But in Baghdad this evening,
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi
proclaimed a big victory over
ISIS, or Da'esh in Arabic.
HAIDER AL-ABADI, Iraqi Prime
Minister (through translator):
All the displaced must return
to their homes.
We are continuing to liberate
all our land from Da'esh.
The Iraqi people ended the
myth of Da'esh in record time,
although the world thought
that this wasn't possible.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Meanwhile,
in Syria, a Kurdish-led
militia has breached
the heart of the Islamic
State's self-proclaimed
capital, Raqqa.
The U.S.-backed forces today
punched through the wall around
the Old City and are now pushing
into the most heavily fortified
portion of the ISIS stronghold.
President Trump's first
face-to-face meeting
with Russian President
Vladimir Putin will
happen this Friday.
They will meet on the sidelines
of the G20 summit as it
begins in Hamburg, Germany.
The White House says
there will be no specific
agenda for the meeting.
There's word that Canada will
apologize to a Canadian citizen
for the alleged treatment
he received at the
Guantanamo Naval Base.
It's widely reported
that he will also be
paid nearly $8 million.
Omar Khadr was captured
in Afghanistan when
he just 15 years old.
He initially admitted to
killing a U.S. soldier and
spent 10 years at Guantanamo.
Khadr says his confession was
coerced, and Canada's Supreme
Court has now ruled he was
interrogated under what it
called oppressive circumstances.
In New Jersey, the three-day
government shutdown is over.
Democratic lawmakers reached
a budget deal last night,
and Republican Governor Chris
Christie signed it into law.
Christie had been heavily
criticized for using a
state beach on Sunday,
after it was closed
to the public.
The new budget agreement allowed
state parks and beaches to
reopen for everyone just in
time for the Fourth of July.
MAN: Pretty excited.
We're going to see the Statue
of Liberty, so we're pretty
excited to be back here.
And I saw on the news yesterday
that it was closed for budget
issues, so it's pretty cool.
WOMAN: It's my first time.
MAN: Our first time.
WOMAN: Well, it's amazing
that it opened in time.
But it's very thankful,
and it's a very special
day to reopen Liberty Park.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In Maine,
Governor Paul LePage also
signed a new budget, ending a
partial government
shutdown in his state.
And in Illinois, there was
no break in a budget impasse
that's now in its third year.
Republican Governor Bruce
Rauner vetoed a $36 billion
package, along with a major tax
hike.
The Democratic-controlled
state Senate quickly
overrode the veto.
But the House took
no immediate action.
And the nation marked its
241st birthday today with an
array of annual celebrations.
Fourth of July parades began
with one in Gatlinburg,
Tennessee, at midnight.
That's been their
tradition for 42 years.
And in Washington this evening,
President and Mrs. Trump
hosted a White House picnic
for military families
before the annual fireworks
over the National Mall.